Welcome back.
We've written quite a few tests now and well 13 Tests.
That's not bad for a small app.
There's definitely more that we can do.
But I want to cover the last part.
Now that I think is important and that is testing our actions now you might be asking yourself what
about Constance.
Are we not testing the Constance file.
But you can see here that Constance are just simply well just assigning string Constance to a variable.
And when you are testing you really want to decide for yourself what you need to test and why you don't
with testing you can really get into a rabbit hole that is you just keep working on tests.
Keep working on tests and next thing you know you haven't really done anything on the production side
of things.
And tests are important but you really want to avoid the idea that oh I just need to have a 100 pass
tests or 100 snapshots or I need my code coverage to be 100 percent.
It's actually not a good idea to have 100 percent code coverage because it means that you're running
tests that most likely don't need to be run and your time could have been spent wisely in other areas
of your app.
Remember there's infinite things that we can do to refactor and make our code prettier write more tests
but we have limited time.
So as a senior developer you have to decide for yourself where the tradeoffs are.
All right.
So Constance file we don't really need tests for that but actions.
I think we do need some tests for our actions.
Let's create an action or actions that test file
and within here let's once again import star as actions from our actions file
and with the first action that we have which is the set search field.
That's a pretty simple one.
We just want to make sure that this function returns this object so we can just use basic just functionality
here we can just have the IT AND I KNOW I SHOULD BE USING THE describe to try to separate out the two
actions that we have.
But I think you get the idea you can do that on your own.
I want to get you to board here but let's have it should create an action to search robots and this
is going to have
a simple very simple text.
Let's have a constant text that's going to equal our search term to and the consulates have the expected
action and the expected action is going to be our object of
and let's import our constants here as well so we can use them it's going to have a type of change search
field and a payload.
And this is the expected action.
So we expect that the action is going to include the word text or we don't need the string characters
here.
There you go.
So we can simply just say expect actions
search what was it it was set search field it's copy that set search field
to have the text and to have to equal.
So we want to set the search field with that text and we need it to have the expected output of the
action so expected action let's save.
And what did I miss here.
Let's see no comma here.
Now overusing the commas this test section has been hard on me with the commas.
Right.
So there you go.
We have new test now in the actions that is passing.
Very very nice and that's simple.
We should know how to do that.
But here's the challenging part.
Now we have this action request robots that oh boy does a dispatch a have an API call here and this
is something that you might not have seen.
I've created an API folder here that simply extracts out our fetch call.
So we give it a U.R.L. and does the response response that Jason.
So that it simplifies things for things for us so we don't have to constantly do fetch but then response
response starred Jason but you've seen this before.
The where is it
the actions.
Just have a dispatch of request robots pending.
And then finally it's going to have either success or failed.
Hmm.
So how do we do this.
Because looking at this action we need dispatch because this is an asynchronous action.
And remember we need thunk for it.
We need a thunk middleware let's start writing the tests and see what we can improve on.
I'm going to close some of these tabs just to clean things out.
There you go.
And we're gonna create a new ad block and in this it block we want to say handles
changing changing or handles requesting robot's API
and we'll say here that while the very first thing we want to do we need to pass the dispatch to our
function again.
Remember the dispatch here.
Well if we do it without this.
So let's just test it out.
If I run the expect actions dot request
robots action I believe that's what's called the request robots and we leave it at this and let's just
say that we expect the type of the action
to have the let's say request robots pending and payload.
If we look at our actions we're not sending any payloads so we can just go ahead and leave that as it
is.
If I save yet one failed
request.
Robots.
And there you go.
I get an error type error.
Dispatch is not a function because remember with asynchronous code we need to pass this dispatch function
to actually run this.
And we used a thunk middleware in order for us to do this.
If you remember index that J.S. we have the thunk middleware in here.
How do we do this.
Well there is a special package that we can use here.
Let me exit out of this.
Make this a little bit bigger let's clear we can install a package called the redux
store and remember that this gives us access to a fake store that we can use for testing.
So let's through npm install dash dash safe def
and now we have access to this fake store and the way we can use it is if I go up here and I say import
configure store and once again this is all in their documentation for the package.
We want to use their redux mock store
and we also want to import the thunk middleware from the redux
package which if you remember we already have in our index does J.S. file and the last thing we need
to do me make sure it's lined up properly is to configure and create this store so we can simply just
say cost locked store equals
configure lock store and we can figure it by giving it some properties of which one of them is the middleware
that we're gonna use which is gonna be the thunk middleware.
So sometimes you're most likely going to add this into a setup test file.
For now I'm going to keep it in here because we only have one actions file but you can usually export
it.
So this store is available to all your tests.
So now we can create the store
equals to the mark store and we run it and I can now say store dot dispatch and store dot dispatch takes
actions dot requests robots.
So we're gonna dispatch this action remember that's this action over here.
And once we dispatch that we can do something like concert action equals to store dot get actions and
now this action is going to contain what we need.
Let me just console log in to show you so console the log
action it's going to contain the action let's save and run NPM test
scroll up and I have a bit of a console log error here.
The configure mocks store should be configure Luxor here.
All right so we see that dispatch is not a function.
Now why is that and this is something that you may have noticed while we're looking at the action.
Dot J S file you remember that redux thunk expects a function to be returned.
And although our program works the way it is now you ideally want to.
Let's go back to the top dog.
Yes
you see here that and this is something we talked about before the redux section.
You see here that we're just giving the dispatch to our request robots.
But the way think works is we want to make sure that we dispatch like this run the function inside of
it so that we can run the dispatch dispatch function just like we have in our tests over here and the
actions request robots.
And we want to dispatch that.
Otherwise we would have to do store dog dispatch in here which is kind of ugly once again to fix that.
Well we need to do is in the actions because if you remember Abdul J.S. we have dispatched now and request
robots needs to run so we're just going to have a function inside of a function and we want to make
sure that this works as well.
So I'm going to go back and do NPM start
right and everything still works.
But now we're able to hopefully run the tests better.
So NPM test
go back to our tests and we see that we have one failed thought we have a type request robots pending
that we expected.
But we got a function instead and if we log actions we see that we have a action type of request robots
pending which we're getting and that's because you can see that the action is returning an array and
we want the object of the action in the expect because we no longer need to run this action.
It's all being run up here and we can get the actions we can just say expect action.
The first item in the array to be run and look at that.
Everything works.
And I know this can get a little bit confusing.
And any you're testing asynchronous thinks it can get pretty difficult.
But all we did was really create a fake store that had the thunk middleware so it awaits for any functions
that are returned from an action in which case we did with our actions dodge request robots because
you see here that every turns an action that takes a dispatch and now this dispatch gets automatically
sentence requests robots it's going to receive the actions and because if we go to our action that J.S.
the very first thing we dispatch is the pending action we receive action 0 to equal the expected action
of robots pending.
All right.
So how do we test the requests robot success and request robots failed.
And that's a little challenged that I'm going to leave for you to decide what to do based on what we've
learned about asynchronous tests and also what we've learned about mocking our redux store and this
is a tough challenging problem.
So use whatever resources you have at hand.
Internet Google Stack Overflow.
Anything you can to try and figure this out because that's what testing is all about.
Testing is sometimes very simple when you have pure functional components or functions or it could be
really difficult when you have all these dependencies that your tests run on but every situation is
different.
And luckily for us with all these resources online you can figure it out as long as you understand how
things work and what the errors mean which as a senior developer is the most important thing.
They don't know every single syntax in a library and know all the documentation.
They just understand how things work underneath the hood so that when the problem arises they can solve
it.
Finally I wanted to show you two things that may help you or I think are great whenever you are doing
asynchronous tests.
The first one is a library called knock and knock simply as an NPM package that you can install and
you can see over here that we can pretend that we're doing a you are alcohol.
We can do a get request to an end point and we can automatically reply with whatever we want.
We can say that this reply had a status of two hundred and it gave us user name and an email.
And this sets you up really nicely for asynchronous test once you get deep into testing as well especially
when you start working with API is super test is one of my favorite tools simply by importing super
test just like here.
And we have the request you can request let's say an express app and you can do all these things like
running get and expecting a content type and a status and a ton of things.
Now this is beyond the scope of this course and it's something that you can take a look at as you get
more more into testing but just realize that there's tons of tools out there for you to use to write
clean nice beautiful test I'll see in the next one.
But by.